---
title: "Going through with the Python"
date: 2020-05-27
---


I take the chance to write down some reflections on my learning journey in Python.
Ok, I tried a lot of learning platforms and I need to sum up my experience. Let's start from the beginning.
My work was quite frustrating, as an independent contractor I was doing some translations, and analysis, SEO optimization, a remote soulless job. Very automatic. But recently there were few to none task, so with that and with the general crisis, I took the chance to dive into coding, without any prior experience, just love for computers. I studied a long time ago Philosophy at the university, and then, when I came to France, I took a degree in Library Science. So no knowledge whatsoever of programming, just love of computers, which have always occupied a lot of my lifetime. I try to do this at my age near forty, hoping for a change of career, more creative, more satisfying, at the worst, I would have just new knowledge in my hands.
As I get into a new interest I just dive in without too much planning, so I started with a Scrimba tutorial "Python 101", at the same time I bought "The Self-Taught Developer", a well-acclaimed book. Then, I found HackerRank, in which I enrolled in the 30 days challenge, which got soon too hard for my too basic knowledge. So I continued Scrimba and the book. The book is very nice, clear, solid knowledge. The concept is well exposed and the exercise useful, especially at the very start. The Scrimba tutorial was nice at the start for the brilliant, jagged style of the teacher, but going on the lack of theory in the course makes it very hard to follow - even if on that platform you can try the code while listening to the lecture, at the start with the most basic commands is useful, but after the first half of the course data sets methods are used without explanation and the experience becomes very frustrating. Luckily I stumbled on the JetSkills academy, whose site provides a complete learning experience. The theory is there, well exposed, never rushed, and the practice part is excellent, with exercises that range from just checking your comprehension to actual coding challenges, that you can complete on their IDE (Integrated Development Environment), PyCharm.  Which is free. Which is absolutely fantastic. Doing that, all your code stays with you, saving your work for future generations. As I got on JetSkills, I was already at the end of part one of Cory Althoff's book, but I decided to start from scratch to cement the basic notions and verify my skills. It was a good decision, as every basic concept in Python has a hidden depth, which you can't really guess at the start. Think of string methods. 
So now I already completed two projects (https://github.com/teorems/Pycharm-Projects) and we'll see how well I'll do next.
